# Salts

This document provides instructions on how to generate and use salts for CREATE2 deployments to deterministic addresses.

## Tasks

### Generating Test Salts

Many of the tests use salts to deploy callbacks at addresses with a specific prefix. Changes to the state variables in the test contract can require the re-generation of the salt. To do so, perform the following:

```bash
./script/salts/test_salts.sh <SALT_KEY>
```

For example, if re-generating salts for the `MockCallback` contract, make the following call:

```bash
./script/salts/test_salts.sh MockCallback
```

The resulting salts will be written to the `./script/salts/salts.json` file, which the test cases will read from.

Notes:

- When re-generating salts, ensure that any git submodule changes are either reverted or committed. For example, if switching from a branch with a particular submodule to a branch in which that submodule is not present, the submodule changes will not be automatically reverted. This will cause changes in the generated bytecode and in turn, the salt. The submodule changes must be reverted and the salts generated afterwards.

### Generating AuctionHouse Salts

For aesthetic reasons, the AuctionHouse contracts may need to be deployed at deterministic addresses.

For the AtomicAuctionHouse and BatchAuctionHouse, a specific script can be used to generate the addresses with a desired prefix.

Assuming that the developer wants to deploy an AtomicAuctionHouse at an address that will start with `0xAA`, the following command would be run:

```bash
./script/salts/auction_house_salts.sh atomic AA
```

The generated salt would be stored in `./script/salts/salts.json` under the key `AtomicAuctionHouse` and a hash of the bytecode. Provided the bytecode is the same, the same salt can be used to deploy the contract at the same address on different chains.

### Generating Salts for Baseline Allocated Allowlist

The Baseline Allocated Allowlist is a single-use Callbacks contract that enables the owner of a fixed-price batch auction to:

- deploy the proceeds using Baseline
- specify a bid limit for each address

To generate a salt for a specific callback deployment, the following addresses are needed:

- Baseline kernel
- Owner of the Baseline deployment (which will have the ability to withdraw reserves)
- Reserve (quote) token

These addresses should match the arguments in the deployment sequence file.

The following script can then be run:

```bash
CHAIN=<chain-name> ./script/salts/baseline_allocated_allowlist_salts.sh <baseline-kernel> <baseline-owner> <reserve-token>
```

### Generating Salts for Any Contract

For aesthetic, gas or other reasons, certain contracts will need to be deployed at deterministic addresses.

The following steps need to be followed to generate the salt:

1. Generate the bytecode file and write it to disk. See `AuctionHouseSalts.s.sol` for an example.

1. Run the salts script with the desired prefix, salt key and bytecode hash. For example:

```bash
./scripts/salts/write_salt.sh ./bytecode/MockCallback98.bin 98 MockCallback 0x5080f4a157b896da527e936ac326bc3742c5d0239c63823b4d5c9939cc19ccb1
```

Provided the contract bytecode (contract code and constructor arguments) is the same, the saved salt will be used during deployment.
