# EMP: Encrypted Marginal Price Auctions

EMP is a fully on-chain, sealed-bid, batch auction system built on the Axis Protocol that uses ECIES encryption and a multi-step settlement process to avoid issues of previous sealed-bid auction designs. The purpose of the system is to allow any seller to create sealed-bid batch auctions for any ERC20 token pair.

Sellers create an auction for a set amount of base tokens (capacity) and provide an EC public key for buyers to encrypt their bids with.

Buyers encrypt their bid price (the amount out) off-chain using the EC public key and submit them to the contract. The amount of quote tokens is public and bid tokens are sent to the contract on bid submission.

Once an auction ends, the settlement happens in two steps. First, the bids are decrypted off-chain, submitted to the contract, and verified by the contract. This can be done by anyone who has the private key to decrypt the bids off-chain. If the Seller uses the Axis dapp to deploy a market, the EC keypair is generated by an API and the private key is released after the auction concludes so that anyone can decrypt the bids. Once all bids are decrypted, anyone can settle the auction and pay out proceeds to the winners. Those who do not win the auction can claim a refund following settlement.

## User Features

### Sellers

- Permissionlessly create sealed-bid batch auctions, which improve execution over open-bid auctions
- Auctions can be created for any (non-weird) ERC20 token pair
- Two transactions to create auction: 1. approve base token (if not already), 2. create auction
- Can limit auction participants using an allowlist
- Can use callbacks to customize functionality at various stages of the auction, including sourcing the payout and directing auction proceeds
- Can create and auction a derivative of the base token if desired
- Can enforce a minimum price and minimum capacity filled in order for auction to settle
- System is on-chain and transparent

### Buyers

- Permissionlessly place bids on any auction (assuming no allowlist)
- Bids are encrypted. Protocol key service hides private key from everyone, even sellers, so that no one can peek at your bids until after the auction is over.
- Settlement is permissionless
- System is on-chain and transparent

## Components and Design Decisions

This version of a sealed-bid auction system has a few key properties that make it attractive:

1. Maximally Permissionless. The entire auction process happens on-chain and can be executed without relying on off-chain infrastructure.
2. Transparent. All bids are encrypted and stored on-chain, but the bids are not decrypted until after the auction ends. This allows anyone to verify the bids and the settlement process.
3. Simple. As an early version of the system, we wanted to get something out that isn't too difficult to build.

However, the user experience is not as good as an off-chain or hybrid system could be. Specifically, users must submit transactions to bid, cancel a bid, and claim a refund if they do not win the auction. We plan for this system to only be used on chains where gas costs are low to mitigate the cost to both buyers and sellers. Additionally, because newer L2 chains don't have the same off-chain infrastructure and services as mainnet, it isn't possible to do some of the hybrid designs on these chains (e.g. web3 functions).

### Smart Contracts

#### Axis Protocol

Axis enables arbitrary auction and derivative combinations in a single settlement contract (the BatchAuctionHouse). For this particular solution, there are only 3 contracts required.

- Auction House
- EMP Auction Module
- Vesting Module

#### Permit2 Approvals

- Gasless for buyers after initial approval
  [Permit2](https://github.com/Uniswap/permit2): Signature-based approvals for any ERC20 token
- [Integration Guide](https://blog.uniswap.org/permit2-integration-guide)

### Encryption Key Management

What: Need to be able to encrypt bids and other data with a key that no interested party controls until the auction ends. This is to prevent insider dealing or other bad behavior.

Solution: API and private database that creates EC keypairs and store the private key until an auction ends. If an auction is cancelled, the private key is never released.

Axis will provide a simple API that provides key management for EC keypairs generated on auction creation. The API will generate a new keypair and store the private key in a database. The public key is returned to the user and stored on the auction contract. Once the auction ends, the private key is released from the database and can be used to decrypt the bids. The API will also provide a convenience function for returning the next bids that need to be decrypted for a given auction. This will allow anyone to decrypt the bids and submit them to the contract for verification.

The API will be written in Rust and the database will be a MongoDB instance following the architecture of the Bond Protocol Limit Orders system. This can be easily hosted on Railway and provides good CI/CD support.

In addition to the API, there will be a Rust service that watches for new auction creation events, checks whether the API provided the key, and stores the auction ID and conclusion timestamp in the database. This will allow the API to release the private key at the correct time. We need this service since we cannot be sure of the auction ID when a key is generated (it may be front-run by another transaction, for example).

### UI / dApp

We will provide a user interface (aka dApp) for both Sellers and Buyers to interact with the product. The key user actions are defined below in the Actions section. The core pages we be:

- List of auctions (TBD on design and filtering between statuses)
- Create auction page - for sellers to create new auctions
- Auction page - Details the status and available actions for a given auction. The auction page will need to support these different states:
  - Created - Auction has been created, but not started
  - Live - Auction is created and currently accepting bids. Buyers should be able to bid and cancel bids they have made.
  - Concluded - Auction has ended and bids are being decrypted. Anyone should be able to decrypt the bids and submit them to the contract for verification.
  - Decrypted - Bids are decrypted and awaiting settlement. Anyone should be able to settle the auction.
  - Settled - Auction payouts have been issued. Buyers that did not win can claim refunds.

The architecture will be a Single Page App (SPA) hosted on [IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/websites-on-ipfs/single-page-website/) with [Eth.limo](https://eth.limo/) domain resolution to ENS owned by the protocol.

#### Subgraph

In order to display user bids on the dapp, it is most convenient to use a subgraph to index the bids from events emitted from the smart contracts. Therefore, we will need to create a subgraph for the BatchAuctionHouse (and possibly other modules depending on where the events reside).

## Actions

### Seller Creates Auction

A seller creating an auction is the first step in the lifecycle. They provide common auction parameters as well as auction specific parameters to the BatchAuctionHouse contract to kick it off. They must approve the BatchAuctionHouse for the token they are selling (base token) or provide a Callbacks contract that will settle the auction.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant Seller
  participant UI
  participant API
  participant Database
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP
  participant Watcher

  Seller->>UI: Navigate to Create Auction page
  activate UI
    Seller->>UI: Input auction data (baseToken, quoteToken, start, duration, minPrice, capacity, optionally callbacks, and derivative data)
    Seller->>UI: Click "Create Auction"
    UI->>API: Request new EC keypair
    activate API
        API->>API: Generate new EC keypair
        API->>Database: Store private key
        API-->UI: Return public key
    deactivate API
    UI->>UI: Create transaction to create auction with input data + public key
    UI-->Seller: Present transaction to Seller to sign
    Seller->>UI: Sign transaction to create auction
    UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send transaction to blockchain
    activate BatchAuctionHouse
        BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Validate and store routing & derivative parameters
        BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call auction module with auction params and lot ID
        activate EMP
            EMP->>EMP: Validate and store auction parameters
            EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Hand execution back to BatchAuctionHouse
            EMP-->Watcher: Emit event for auction creation with public key
            Watcher->>Database: Store auction ID and conclusion timestamp for public key
        deactivate EMP
        BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Finish execution and return result
    deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
    UI-->Seller: Show transaction status
  deactivate UI
```

### Buyer Places Bid

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant Buyer
  participant UI
  participant Permit2
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP

  Buyer->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Fetch data for auction ID (base token, quote token, public key, start, conclusion, auction type, derivative type + info, capacity, min bid size)
  BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Get data stored on module to return
  BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return results
  UI-->Buyer: Display data for user
  Buyer->>UI: Input bid data (amount, minAmountOut)
  UI->>Permit2: Check user's approval for quote token
  alt user hasn't approved Permit2
    UI-->Buyer: Display "Approve Permit2" button
    Buyer->>UI: Click "Approve Permit2" button
    UI-->Buyer: Display transaction for signing
    Buyer->>UI: Sign approval transaction
    UI->>Permit2: Send approval transaction
    Permit2-->UI: Return execution result
  end
  UI-->Buyer: Display "Place bid" button
  Buyer->>UI: Click "Place bid" button
  UI->>UI: Get random seed for encryption
  UI->>UI: Encrypt minAmountOut with public key from auction
  UI->>UI: Construct permit2 approval for BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->Buyer: Display permit2 signature request
  Buyer->>UI: Sign permit2 signature request
  UI->>UI: Create bid transaction with permit2 approval and bid data (amount, encrypted minAmountOut)
  UI-->Buyer: Display transaction for signing
  Buyer->>UI: Sign bid transaction
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send bid transaction to blockchain
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
    BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Validate permit2 approval and transfer quote tokens
    BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call bid function with auction ID, amount, and encrypted minAmountOut
    activate EMP
        EMP->>EMP: Validate bid parameters and store encrypted bid data
        EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Hand execution back to BatchAuctionHouse
    deactivate EMP
    BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return transaction result
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->Buyer: Display submission result to user
```

### Buyer Cancels Bid

Buyers are able to cancel bids (and receive the deposited quote tokens) at certain times during the auction lifecycle. The bid must be deleted from the stored bids so as to not require it to be decrypted.

Bids can be cancelled/refunded:

- Before conclusion of the lot
- After the post-conclusion settlement period (by default, 6 hours) has passed and before the private key has been submitted

What would cause a loss of funds?

- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer ERC20 token: this is already checked during bidding when transferring the quote token from the bidder to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert-on-zero ERC20 token: the transfer amount is checked before calling `transfer()`
- ❌ Bidder on blacklist: if the bidder is added to the quote token's blacklist after the bid is placed, the transfer of the quote tokens back to the bidder would fail.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant Buyer
  participant UI
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP
  participant Subgraph

  Buyer->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Fetch data for auction ID (base token, quote token, public key, start, conclusion, auction type, derivative type + info, capacity, min bid size)
  UI->>Subgraph: Fetch bids for user on auction ID
  UI-->Buyer: Display bids for user
  Buyer->>UI: Click "Cancel bid" button
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send `refundBid(lotId, bidId)` transaction to blockchain.
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
    BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call `refundBid(lotId, bidId)`
    activate EMP
        Note over EMP: Auction must be active, bid must not be refunded
        EMP->>EMP: Validate and delete bid
        EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Return refund amount to BatchAuctionHouse
    deactivate EMP
    BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Transfer refund to bidder
    BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return transaction result
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->Buyer: Display transaction result and update bids
```

### Seller Cancels Auction

Sellers are able to specify a start time for their auction in the future. If they want to cancel the auction before it starts, they can do so and the auction will be deleted. If the auction has already started and is accepting bids, then the seller can no longer cancel it.

What would cause a loss of funds?

- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer ERC20 token: this is already checked during auction creation when transferring the base token from the seller to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert-on-zero ERC20 token: the transfer amount is checked before calling `transfer()`
- ❌ Seller on blacklist: if the seller is added to the base token's blacklist after the auction is created and funded, the transfer of the base tokens back to the seller would fail.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant Seller
  participant UI
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP
  participant Watcher

  Seller->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Fetch data for auction ID (base token, quote token, public key, start, conclusion, auction type, derivative type + info, capacity, min bid size)
  UI-->Seller: Display auction data
  Seller->>UI: Click "Cancel auction" button
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send `cancel(lotId)` transaction to blockchain.
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
    BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call cancelAuction(lotId)
    activate EMP
        Note over EMP: The auction must not have started, in order to cancel it.
        EMP->>EMP: Validate and delete auction
        EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Hand execution back to BatchAuctionHouse
    deactivate EMP
    BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Transfer pre-funding amount to seller
    BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return transaction result
    BatchAuctionHouse-->Watcher: Emit event for auction cancellation
    Watcher->>Watcher: Get auction ID from event
    Watcher->>Database: Delete auction ID and conclusion timestamp for public key
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->Seller: Display transaction result and update auction status
```

### Auction Settlement Part 1: Decryption

After an auction has concluded, the bids must be decrypted and sorted by price. We do this by releasing the EC private key from the database via the API to anyone on the dapp looking at the auction page. Decryption works by providing an array of (amountOut, seed) for the bids in the order they were submitted to the contract. The seed was randomly generated on submission and can be extracted by decrypting the bid. The API provides a convenience function for returning an array for the next bids that need to be decrypted from an auction (using its ID). It may take several decryption transactions depending on the number of bids and gas limit. Once, all bids are decrypted on the contract, we can move to part 2 of the settlement process.

Notes:

- This requires direct transactions to the EMP auction module since the `submitPrivateKey` and `decryptAndSortBids` functions are not generic and won't be on the BatchAuctionHouse
- If a seller elects to manage the private key through the API, then anyone can release the private key upon auction conclusion.
- However, if the seller manages the private key directly, this may pose a problem, as the seller will be able to decrypt the bids at any time and potentially elect to not settle the auction lot. This is mitigated through the following:
  - The seller will not receive any of the proceeds unless the auction lot is settled.
  - As batch auctions are pre-funded, the base token capacity of the auction lot will not be returned to the seller.
  - After the conclusion of the auction and the dedicated settlement period (by default, until 1 day after the conclusion of the auction lot), anyone can abort the auction.
  - The net effect is that if the seller elects to never settle the auction lot (or is unable to), bidders are able to obtain their deposits.

What could cause a loss of funds?

- ✅ If the seller creates an auction directly with the contracts (eschewing the API) and retains the private key, they are able to delay settlement indefinitely by withholding the private key. For this reason, bids can be cancelled/refunded until the private key is submitted.
- ✅ If the bid decryption fails: the decryption of the bid amount out reverts if the submitted private key is invalid, but `submitPrivateKey` checks if the private key is valid before storing it.
- ✅ If the storage of a decrypted bid fails: the decrypted bid amount out will only be stored if it and the derived price (`amount/amountOut`) is within the bounds of `uint96`. A number larger than that will be skipped.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant User
  participant UI
  participant API
  participant Database
  participant EMP

  User->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI-->User: Display auction status and percent of bids decrypted
  User->>UI: Click "Decrypt bids" button
  UI->>API: Request next bids to decrypt for auction ID
  activate API
      API->>Database: Get private key for auction ID
      API->>EMP: Get encrypted bids and nextDecryptId for auction ID
      activate EMP
          EMP->>EMP: Get encrypted bids for auction ID
          EMP-->API: Return encrypted bids
      deactivate EMP
      API->>API: Decrypt bids
      API-->UI: Return array of decrypted bids
  deactivate API
  UI->>UI: Create transaction to decrypt bids with array
  UI-->User: Display transaction for signing
  User->>UI: Sign transaction to decrypt bids
  UI->>EMP: Send transaction to blockchain: submitPrivateKey(privateKey, numBids)
  activate EMP
      Note over EMP: The auction must have concluded, the private key must not yet be submitted, and the private key must be valid
      EMP->>EMP: Store the private key
      EMP->>EMP: Validate and store decrypted bids
      alt all bids decrypted
          EMP->>EMP: Set auction status to "Decrypted"
      end
      EMP-->UI: Return transaction result
  deactivate EMP
  UI-->User: Display transaction result and update auction status
```

### Auction Settlement Part 2: Evaluate Winners and Distribute Proceeds

The final step to settle an auction is to determining the winning bids.

This includes:

- Evaluating the winning bids
- Sending the proceeds (quote tokens) to the seller
- Sending the payout (base tokens) to the curator
  - If there is no derivative, the curator payout is allocated and can be later claimed through `claimRewards()`.
  - Otherwise if there is a derivative, the required number of derivative tokens are minted to the curator. This involves a transfer from the BatchAuctionHouse to the derivative module.
- Refunding any unused payout (base tokens) to the seller

Winning bids are determined in the following manner:

- Evaluate the sorted, decrypted bids to determine the marginal price for the auction and distribute funds to the winners.
- If the auction did not reach the minimum price or minimum fill capacity, then the auction is settled without winners, and users can claim refunds.
- If there are winners, the settlement is stored for later.
- The settlement function is open and can be called by anyone after the decryption process is complete.

What could cause a loss of funds?

- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer quote token: this is already checked during bidding when transferring the quote token from the bidder to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer base token: this is already checked during auction creation when transferring the base token from the seller to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert-on-zero quote/base token: the transfer amount is checked before calling `transfer()`
- ❌ Seller or callback on blacklist: if the seller or callback is added to the quote or base token's blacklist after the auction is created and funded, the transfer of the quote or base tokens would fail. However, this would not result in a permanent loss of the bidders' funds, as the `abort()` function on `IBatchAuctionHouse` can be used as an escape hatch.
- ✅ Curator on blacklist: there are no direct transfers to the curator in this function, so it would not be affected.
- ✅ Due to filtering in the decryption stage, bids are guaranteed to be within the bounds of `uint96` and have a derived price that is also within the bounds of `uint96`.
- ✅ Overflow in summation variables: the variables that track the sum of quote tokens in and base tokens out could overflow if there are enough bids. This is mitigated by using `uint256` for the summation variables.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant User
  participant UI
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP
  participant DerivativeModule
  participant Seller

  User->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI-->User: Display auction status
  User->>UI: Click "Settle auction" button
  UI-->User: Display transaction for signing
  User->>UI: Sign transaction to settle auction
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send transaction to blockchain
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
      BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Validate auction status and settle auction
      BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call settle function with auction ID
      activate EMP
          Note over EMP: Auction status must be "Decrypted"
          EMP->>EMP: Validate auction status
          alt auction did not reach minimum price or capacity
              EMP->>EMP: Set auction status to "Settled"
          else auction reached minimum price and capacity
              EMP->>EMP: Set auction status to "Settled"
              EMP->>EMP: Calculate marginal price
          end
          EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Return settlement output to BatchAuctionHouse
      deactivate EMP
      BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Cache the protocol and referrer fee rates
      BatchAuctionHouse->>Seller: Transfer quote token proceeds to seller (or callback) (minus fees)
      Note right of BatchAuctionHouse: The remaining base tokens are the pre-funded capacity and curator payout, minus any pending bid claims
      BatchAuctionHouse->>Seller: Transfer remaining base tokens to seller (or callback)
      alt seller specified onSettle callback
        BatchAuctionHouse->>Seller: Call onSettle callback
        Seller->>Seller: Execute callback logic
      end
      alt derivative is defined
        BatchAuctionHouse->>DerivativeModule: mint payout to curator as derivative
      else
        BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: allocate base token rewards for curator
      end
      BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return transaction result
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->User: Display transaction result and update auction status
```

## Abort Auction

After the conclusion of the auction, anyone is able to call `abort()` on the auction, provided the following conditions are fulfilled:

- The auction has concluded
- The dedicated settlement period has passed (default: 1 day)
- The lot has not been settled

The abort functionality is present to prevent the locking of bidders' funds when the seller is unwilling or unable to settle the auction.

Upon calling `abort()`, the following will happen:

1. Marking the auction lot as "Settled"
1. Marking the marginal price as the maximum value (so that call bids can be refunded)
1. Refunding pre-funded capacity to the seller

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant User
  participant UI
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP
  participant Seller

  User->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI-->User: Display auction status
  User->>UI: Click "Abort auction" button
  UI-->User: Display transaction for signing
  User->>UI: Sign transaction to abort auction
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send transaction to blockchain
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
      BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Validate auction status
      BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call abort function with auction ID
      activate EMP
          Note over EMP: Auction status must be "Created"
          EMP->>EMP: Validate auction status
          EMP->>EMP: Set auction status to "Settled"
          EMP->>EMP: Set marginal price to maximum value
          EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Return to BatchAuctionHouse
      deactivate EMP
      BatchAuctionHouse->>Seller: Transfer pre-funded base tokens to seller (or callback)
      BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return transaction result
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->User: Display transaction result and update auction status
```

## Curator Claims Payout

After settlement, curators can claim their payout.

What can cause a loss of funds?

- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer base token: this is already checked during auction creation when transferring the base token from the seller to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert-on-zero base token: the transfer amount is checked before calling `transfer()`
- ❌ Curator on blacklist: if the curator is added to the base token's blacklist after the auction is created and funded, the transfer of the base tokens to the curator would fail.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant User
  participant UI
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant Curator

  User->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI-->User: Display auction status
  User->>UI: Click "Claim Curator Payout" button
  UI-->User: Display transaction for signing
  User->>UI: Sign transaction to claim curator payout
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send transaction to blockchain
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
    BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Call `claimRewards()`
    BatchAuctionHouse->>Curator: Transfer base token payout to curator
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->User: Display transaction result and update auction status
```

## Bidder Claims Bid

After settlement, bidders can claim the outcome of their bid. This can be a refund (if under the marginal price) or payout.

What can cause a loss of funds?

- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer quote token: this is already checked during bidding when transferring the quote token from the bidder to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert from fee-on-transfer base token: this is already checked during auction creation when transferring the base token from the seller to the BatchAuctionHouse.
- ✅ Revert-on-zero quote/base token: the transfer amount is checked before calling `transfer()`
- ❌ Bidder on blacklist: if the bidder is added to the quote or base token's blacklist, the transfer of the quote or base tokens to the bidder would fail. Other bidders could be shielded from this by splitting the affected bidId from the `claimBids` call.
- ✅ Late vesting: the LinearVesting derivative module can deploy or mint a derivative token even when the vesting expiry is in the past. (Fixed in [#116](https://github.com/Axis-Fi/moonraker/pull/116))

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  autoNumber
  participant User
  participant UI
  participant BatchAuctionHouse
  participant EMP
  participant DerivativeModule
  participant Buyers

  User->>UI: Navigate to Auction page
  UI-->User: Display auction status
  User->>UI: Click "Claim Bid" button
  UI-->User: Display transaction for signing
  User->>UI: Sign transaction to settle auction
  UI->>BatchAuctionHouse: Send transaction to blockchain
  activate BatchAuctionHouse
      BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Validate auction status
      BatchAuctionHouse->>EMP: Call claimBids(lotId, bidIds) function
      activate EMP
          Note over EMP: Auction must have "Settled" status
          EMP->>EMP: Validate auction status
          loop
            Note over EMP: Bid must not have been claimed
            EMP->>EMP: Validate bid status
            EMP->>EMP: Set bid status to "Claimed"
            EMP->>EMP: Return paid, payout and refund amounts
          end
          EMP-->BatchAuctionHouse: Return bid claims
      deactivate EMP
      loop
        alt bid has payout
          BatchAuctionHouse->>BatchAuctionHouse: Allocate quote token fees
          alt payout is a derivative of base token
            BatchAuctionHouse->>DerivativeModule: Mint vesting tokens to bidder
            DerivativeModule-->Buyers: Send vesting tokens to bidder
          else
            BatchAuctionHouse-->Buyers: Send payout to bidder
          end
        end

        alt bid has refund
          BatchAuctionHouse-->Buyers: Send refund to bidder
        end
      end
      BatchAuctionHouse-->UI: Return transaction result
  deactivate BatchAuctionHouse
  UI-->User: Display transaction result and update bid statuses
```

## Marginal Price Settle Logic

### Terms

- Capacity - total amount of base tokens offered for sale
- Minimum Fill - minimum amount of base tokens that must be sold to settle auction
- Minimum Price - minimum amount of quote tokens per base token that must be received to settle auction
- Total Amount In - total amount of quote tokens received on auction settlement
- Total Amount Out - total amount of base tokens paid on auction settlement
- Marginal Bid ID - the last bid ID that settles at a given marginal price. if the marginal price is in between bids, then this will be zero.

### Goals

1. Fill as much of the capacity as possible with valid bids (above minimum price and minimum size)
2. Check for intermediate marginal prices that fill total capacity between bids to avoid large cliffs.
3. If not able to fill total capacity, try to settle the auction at the minimum price with a portion of the capacity (must be greater than the minimum fill).

### Mechanism

Note: We assume that bid IDs are indexed from 1 such that all bid IDs are non-zero.

1. Sort bids by price (high to low), then by order submitted (low to high). In EMP Auctions, bids are pre-sorted during decryption.
2. Iterate through the bids to find the ones that settle the auction to find: marginal price, marginal bid ID, partial fill ID, totalAmountIn, totalAmountOut

   - If current bid price < minimum price, we have seen all valid bids and weren't able to settle at last price. Check if the auction can be filled at the minimum price. If so, calculate the intermediate marginal price that fills the capacity (>= minimumPrice). If not, the minimum price is the marginal price. Set marginal bid ID to zero since no bids were submitted at the marginal price. Exit loop. Otherwise, continue.
   - Before considering the current bid, check if we can fill total capacity from previously considered bids at current bid price. If so, calculate the intermediate marginal price that fills the auction (>= currentPrice) and set marginalBidId to zero, which means no bids at the current price are included. Exit loop. Otherwise, continue.
   - Current bid is now considered. Increment totalAmountIn with current bid amount. Calculate totalAmountOut from totalAmountIn at currentPrice. If totalAmountOut is enough to fill capacity, then the marginal price is the current bid price. If totalAmountOut is strictly greater than capacity, then current bid is a partial fill. Set the marginal bid ID to the current bid ID. Exit loop. Otherwise, continue.
   - If this is the last bid in the queue, we have seen all valid bids and weren't able to settle at current price. Check if the auction can be filled at the minimum price. If so, calculate the intermediate marginal price that fills the capacity (>= minimumPrice). If not, the minimum price is the marginal price. Set marginal bid ID to zero since no bids were submitted at the marginal price.

3. Determine if Auction can be Settled:
   - If marginalPrice >= minimumPrice and totalAmountOut >= minimumFilled, then we can settle the auction. Save marginal price and marginal bid ID in storage. If partial bid ID is not zero, claim it now so we don't have to deal with it later. Send proceeds and refund (if any) to seller.
   - Otherwise, the auction cannot be settled. Save marginal price to a value greater than the highest bid price in storage so that all bids are refunded. Send refund to seller.
